# ComputationalMusicologyLK

This portfolio looks at the relationship between Spotify's Automix functionality and the musical corresponding mix components used in the DJ industry to smoothly transition songs. The automix playlists used for this portfolio are HouseWerk, TechnoBunker and Dance Rising. The music contained in the playlist is best classified under House music. In subcategory the Housewerk playlist contains techhouse, TechnoBunker techno and DanceRising dance pop. The interest in this comparison came from being a DJ myself. In the DJ world, mainly 2 components are used that are important for a transition between two songs. These are the tempo of the songs and the pitch (key) that the mixing songs are in. It will be investigated whether these components are also used by the automix functionality. This will focus on the order of the songs in the playlist. The shuffle functionality will be left out.  It may also turn out that the functionality is completely random. Looking at the HouseWerk playlist, the first analysis can be made of the songs that are in the playlist. What is immediately noticeable is that the songs occur mostly in the same tempo range. This is a tempo between 125 and 130 bpm (beats per minute). About the key, at first glance, it is difficult to make a statement. In general, tech house songs are mostly made in A minor. This makes overmixing in the same key easy. Later analysis will show whether the order of the songs in the playlist was determined explicitly in order to achieve a good transition.
